# FLoDA - Flood Discourse: Analysis of language and themes in media coverage about floods in Lower Austria
As climate change has contributed to increasingly extreme weather events across the globe, the Austrian region of Lower Austria is one of many territories affected by catastrophic flooding. Over the last two decades, the impact of these events have been documented not just through official disaster reports, but also the narratives in print and digital Austrian media. The aim of the project Flood Discourse: Analysis of language and themes in media coverage about floods in Lower Austria (FLoDA) is to analyze the media framing of flood risks and flood events in Lower Austria from 2000 to 2024. Which topics dominate the discourse on floods in Lower Austria? What role does climate change play in this discussion? Are floods treated as a national "natural disaster" topic, or are references made to international floods and climate change? How have topics in this discussion shifted or evolved? Also, is the media coverage of the floods in Lower Austria politically instrumentalised and if so, how?

The goal is to identify topics that receive the most media attention in flood contexts and to explore the dynamics between crisis reporting and public discourse and political narratives. Using methods from corpus linguistics, media content is examined through topic modeling, named entity recognition and keyword analysis. External environmental data complement the analysis, enabling insights into the impact of climate conditions on media discourse. A specific focus is also placed on identifying how floods are framed in political contexts including their potential use to convey certain narratives. The findings are presented in interactive visualizations, providing a valuable resource for research on crisis communication and the influence of climate change on media risk discourses.
